README.md, before:

# Abstract

## Workshop

This package is designed to facilitate learning real-time analytics without IoT. Participants will enable intelligent conversation in a machine learning-enabled, real-time chat pipeline to allow hotel guests to chat with one another, and to communicate directly with the concierge. They will also apply analytics to visualize customer sentiment in real-time. After completion, students will be better able to implement a lambda architecture, and enable web-based real-time messaging thru Web Sockets, Event Hubs, and Services Bus. In addition, participants will better understand how to:

-   Leverage Cognitive Services (LUIS & Text Analytics API)

-   Process Events with Web Jobs

-   Index with Search

-   Archive with Cosmos DB

-   Visualize with Power BI Q&A


## Whiteboard Design Session
TBD

## Hand-on Lab
TBD


## Azure services and related products
- Azure Stream Analytics
- Azure Cognitive Services
- Azure Cosmos DB
- Azure Search
- Azure Event Hubs
- Azure App Services
- Azure Service Bus
- Azure Storage
- Azure Stream Analytics
- Power BI

# Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions.  Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA-bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., label, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

Commit message:

Reorganizing content and added starter solution

README.md, after:

# Abstract

Adventure Works Travel specializes in building software solutions for the hospitality industry. Their latest product is an enterprise mobile/social chat product called Concierge+ (aka ConciergePlus). The mobile web app enables guests to easily stay in touch with the concierge and other guests, enabling greater personalization and improving their experience during their stay. Sentiment analysis is performed on top of chat messages as they occur, enabling hotel operators to keep tabs on guest sentiments in real-time.

## Workshop

Learn real-time analytics without IoT. Enable intelligent conversation in a machine learning-enabled, real-time chat pipeline and apply analytics to visualize customer sentiment in real-time for hotel guests to allow guests to chat with one another, and to communicate directly with the concierge. Apply analytics to visualize customer sentiment in real-time, as well as view trending sentiment over time. Create a bot that can answer questions and embed it in the custom web app.

By attending this workshop, you will be better able to implement a lambda architecture, and enable web-based real-time messaging thru Web Sockets, Event Hubs, and Services Bus. In addition, you will better understand how to:

- Leverage Cognitive Services (LUIS & Text Analytics API)

- Process Events with Azure functions

- Index with Search

- Archive with Cosmos DB

- Visualize with Power BI Q&A

- Use Bot Framework for questions and answers

## Whiteboard Design Session

In this whiteboard design session, you will work with a group to design a solution for building a real-time chat pipeline, incorporating machine learning and analytics to detect and visualize customer sentiment. You will also design a lambda architecture to handle both real-time chat processing and data archiving and search indexing for analyzing all data flowing through the system. Finally, you will determine whether a bot can be incorporated in the solution, and how it fits alongside the messaging capabilities.

## Hands-on Lab

This hands-on lab is designed to provide exposure to many of Microsoft's transformative line of business applications built using Microsoft advanced analytics. The goal is to show an end-to-end solution, leveraging many of these technologies, but not necessarily doing work in every component possible.

## Azure services and related products

- Azure Cognitive Services
- Azure Cosmos DB
- Azure Search
- Azure Event Hubs
- Azure App Services
- Azure Functions
- Azure Service Bus
- Azure Storage
- Azure Stream Analytics
- Microsoft Bot Framework
- Power BI

# Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions. Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA-bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., label, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.
